
README

Freescale Kinetis K60 / ARM Cortex-M4 Project <www.laswick.net>

Rob Laswick
April 21 2012


Welcome!  Hopefully you'll find the information in this project helpful and
useful.  All source code in this project is freely available to be used
however you like, for learning purposes, and/or to be used in part or in full
in both open and closed source projects.  See the COPYING file for more
information, including the licensing agreement.

All the files and source code in this project were developed and made
available during the process of a long term Problem Based Learning (PBL)
(en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Problem-based_learning) style "after hours"
project at L-3 Wescam (www.wescam.com) by volunteers from the
Software and Electrical Engineering departments.

    PBL IN A NUTSHELL

    A highly successful and enjoyable way to learn something new, and engage
    others in the process is to first determine what exactly it is you what
    want to learn, then to develop a road map of what's required to effectively
    meet that goal.  Once the road map has been established, items/topics on
    the road map are delegated to each of the participants.  Everyone is
    responsible for learning their assigned topic, then later teaching it to
    the group.  As well as being a highly effective way to learn new things,
    there are so many other benefits to this method, one of the most noteworthy
    being a sense of teamwork and knowledge sharing.  This approach has proven
    to be a very successful method of team building in the work place.

The goal of this project was to take a group of talented embedded
systems engineers on a soul searching journey to develop a detailed yet
practical understanding of the ARM Cortex-M4 using the Freescale Kinetis
family of microcontrollers, the super cool K60 Tower development kits,
and the free CodeSourcery GNU tools.

The project was broken down into 3 main phases, with each phase consisting of
a number of relevant topics.  Everyone participating was assigned one or more
topics per phase that they were responsible for learning, and later teaching
to the rest of the team, based on an predefined presentation schedule.
Prior to the presentation, everyone is responsible for developing a set
of software corresponding to their topic (Makefile, driver, and demo, etc.)
and commit it to the project repository.  A major portion of each presentation
was spent stepping through every line of code and clearly explaining the
what and whys.

This initiative was started on March 20 2012, and is pretty much complete.
However, the code base is still being maintained, and fixes and features will
likely continue to be added.

PHASE 1: Assembly Programming

    This phase focuses strictly on understanding the fundamentals of how an
    ARM Cortex M4 processor actually works, and ARM assembly level programming
    (including writing processor specific start code, linker scripts, and
    Makefiles from scratch!).  Far too often developers and engineers riddle
    their resumes with lists of all the processors they've worked with, but in
    reality most if not all of them code almost exclusively in a higher level
    language (i.e. C/C++) which abstracts out almost all of the low level
    details!  Higher level languages definitely have their advantages, but
    let's be honest, if you only code in C it's very difficult to tell one
    processor from another.  The bottom line is there is value in understanding
    how a processor "really" works under the hood.

    TOPICS COVERED

        Start Code & Linker Scripts & Makefiles
        GPIO
        Interrupts
        Watchdog
        ADC
        Timers
        DAC
        Clock Options
        UART
        DMA
        Power Modes
        PWM
        TSI
        RNG & CRC
        The Kinetis Flash Configuration Field

    This phase started on April 12 2012 and completed on June 7 2012.

PHASE 2: Embedded C Programming

    This phase focuses on "embedded" C programming and how it differs from
    traditional (non-embedded) C programming.  We'll be diving further into
    start code and linker scripts, with an emphasis on the infamous crt0:
    C runtime environment setup (i.e. "getting to main()" -- you'd be surprised
    how many so called embedded "experts" don't know what goes on before main()
    is called!  We unveil this great mystery).  This phase also focuses on
    developing generic full featured drivers, with working demos for almost
    all of the Freescale peripherals attached to the ARM core in the K60.

    We also choose to explore the POSIX device driver model (i.e. open, close,
    read, write, ioctl), which we completely understand can be total overkill
    for typical low level, non-RTOS based applications, but for the purpose
    of a learning exercise, this project seemed like a good opportunity to
    dive into the details of implementing such an interface.

    TOPICS COVERED

        Start Code & Linker Scripts & CRT
        GPIO
        Interrupts
        UART
        ADC
        FLASH
        External Bus Interface (EBI)
        Executing out of RAM
        Boot Loader
        MPU
        Timers
        DAC
        Interfacing C & Assembly
        I2C
        SPI
        CRC (WSCP)
        SDHC
        Touch Sensor Interface (TSI)
        USB
        CAN
        Ethernet
        DMA
        Clock Options
        Watchdog
        Power Modes

    This phase started on June 21 2012, with a summer break, and completed
    on November 22 2012.

PHASE 3: Real Time Embedded C Programing

    This phase focuses on getting a real time operating system running
    from the ground up, and writing "thread-safe" low level drivers.  We'll
    be using the Chibi RTOS, which is a very impressive full featured open
    source RTOS.

    TOPICS COVERED

        RTOS Initialization & Scheduler
        Semaphores (including Mutexes)
        Message Queues
        Interrupts
        Events Flags

    This phase started on January 24 2013, and completed on February 21 2013.


If you have any questions, comments, concerns, or ... in the extremely rare
event you find a <gasp> software bug (although admittedly we "occasionally"
code when befuddled by C2H5OH, tee hee), please feel free to reach out to me
via email at robert.laswick@gmail.com.

